Some thoughts on the experiment:

Nice its pretty intuitive and participants will find it fun and this is going to be a great set up to explore control.

Here's a bunch of initial reactions and proposed tweaks about the demo:

Instructions - "The green dot marks the direction" and "value of the green dot" - Do you mean the "location"? Is it the gap between the ship and the green dot, or the gap between the centre of the map and the green dot that marks the intended shift? When I drove to the edge I became very unsure how it works particularly how the slider rescales depending on your ships location (see below).

Importantly, its totally unspecified in the instructions whether the drift rate and/or the control rate are constant, linear, continuously changing, or whether the rate of change has some underlying function.  If it is constant the task is pretty easy right but conversely if there are no limits on how how the control and the drift change from step to step then the task is formally impossible, right, because the past does not tell you anything about the future?  So:  I think we'll need to warn people (and check they have understood before starting) that both can change but that there is still some relationship between past and future so it is worth trying to do some dual control.

Also, I "explored" during the dark blue patch by keeping the slider in the centre.  I did this because it felt like my control was linear (plus isn't it revealed by the green dot anyway?) but I wanted to watch the rate of change of drift rate over several steps (i.e. is it curving one way or another etc).  Is this supposed to be the wrong thing to do? It felt pretty sensible to me.

It should be clear what happens if you go near the edge. Maybe it should wrap around, maybe you just stay at the edge, maybe you die?  There are issues about the limits of the functions and the edge of the map we need to be clear on for participants and also for modelling since otherwise the functions are all location dependent.  There seems to be some infinite scaling rescaling thing going on, i.e. does the zero point of the slider move with the ship but the space on each side is rescaled?

On a new step, the green dot started in the middle even when the slider is still set somewhere far from centre.  This is confusing.  I think that either the slider should reset or the green dot should.  Might be nice to have the slider 'thumb' only appear upon click so you can't just leave it in place.

Can the white gaps in the image be narrower, and can the shading of the value landscape be a little milder, i.e. mix it with some white.

Can the ship be bigger? It might be tiny because I'm on a retina screen right now, if so we need to set the pixel ratio in the js (something tobi and i recently discovered).

Should we plot the path of the ship over the past for the participants?  Maybe this could this be a between-subs condition variation?

Its not immediately obvious why the slider isn't vertical and to the left.  Are you thinking to counterbalance the valence of the control function (e.g. sometimes up is right, sometimes its down?).

We could ask people to plot or describe their understanding of the control and the drift aspects at the end.


***Testing out making changes****



